High in this video we're going to take a look at how we can use classes to decorate functions.
So we've seen how to use functions to decorate functions but we can actually also use classes.
And that's because Python class instances can be made callable themselves.
So we'll get to that in a minute.
Let's start by recalling how we did our decorators and we wanted a parameterised decorator.
So we had to use a parameter factory.
So let's do a very simple one let's say def my deck will take two parameters in a week.
Then inside we're going to now create our decorator the final decorator
and looks here.
End here we're just going to say print decorated a function called a quolls and B equals
k.
Now that A and B remember is coming from the outer function from the factory function.
And then finally we're just going to call and return the value of the function called with ons and Starns
and stuffs start walking.
Then we have to return energy and then we have to return the decorator itself because this is a decorated
factory.
So there we go.
That was very very simple decorator factory example.
Now we can decorate a function this way and let's say def life funk and S and will say print hello.
Yes.
So now we have this function my fungous been decorated using my deck.
Right.
We passed in the parameters to the factory function and they were referenced inside the decorators in
a function.
So the inner function was a closure.
DEC itself is also a closure and we can reference a and b Those are the three variables that came from
my deck.
So if we call my phunk
world we get that decorator's function called I'll fix the typo.
A was 10 B was 20.
And then we get hello world.
The result of call it my funk.
So this was a very simple decorator factory type of example.
Now I want to switch gears and talk about the fact that class instances can be callable in Python as
well.
So let's go ahead and create a class let's say class my class and we'll do dumb in that method.
So it will take in two parameters and I'm going to set the instance variables A and B to those two parameters
A and B.
Now I'm going to create this special method called donder call and done the call can take in parameters.
Maybe it will take in a parameter C.
And all we're going to do here is just print called a equals.
Parameters zero b equals from a wan and sequel's parameter to.
And then we'll pass on to all four mapped cell 5 views.
I have to use self-talk because this is the instance variable.
A self-taught B for the instance variable b that remember where stold when we actually created an instance
of my class and then C is just a parameter of this method done to call.
So there we go.
We have this class.
So now we can create an object which is going to be an instance of my class and let's pass in 10 and
20 to the initializer needs two parameters.
So now we have this not object is an object.
It is an instance of my class that lives at some memory address but because we actually defined this
done the call method.
The object is itself callable.
So yes I could call code this way.
Right.
I could call it this way and say let's say 100.
So I get called Agle 10 Beagle's 20 Segal's 100.
This is just the method.
It's an instance method defined in my class so I can call it this way.
But because it has this special name Dunder call I can also call it this way.
So I don't have to use the dumb to call the DOT dhanda call.
I can just call the object and Python will see that it will look for that done the call method and execute
that.
And so we get the same thing haggles 10 vehicles 20 sequel's 100 so now hopefully you can start seeing
some parallels between what's happening here and what's happening here in the decorator's and this decorator
factory.
We defined two variables a and b and initialiser we defined two variables A and B.
Then this was the decorator that decorator was returned when we called my deck here.
This class is callable.
Well what if the Dunder call returned the decorator what if done the call was the decorator.
Let's try that.
So let's go ahead and let's do it this way.
So instead of calling printing that out I'm going to take this over here.
Right.
This is the inner function that gets returned from the decorator.
So my decorator now is going to be this done the call.
So obviously it needs the function right.
So this think of this done the call as the decorator function not the factory the factory is actually
now the class.
But think of this done to call as nothing more than death deck.
OK.
So this is the decorator function.
And it's going to create this in a function so decorate a function called a B.
Right.
The A and B are which.
Which once they the instance variables A and B.
So the only difference here is I have to use self-taught a self-taught B.
And then I have function which was passed into call and then it gets called and we return the value
of that and then we return in.
So now we have a class my class that can be instantiated we can pass in two parameters and then the
call method is the decorator.
So if we call the instance of my class it will actually call this function here.
It will take in a single parameter the function.
This is the decorator.
So now we can decorate a function this way we can say my class can come to 20.
So what is that going to do.
That's going to return an instance of my class which is itself callable so we can use this shortened
syntax and then we use the same function we had before.
So let me just go ahead and copy and paste it.
So now we've decorated my funk and in fact we call my funk
we get decorated function call a was 10 B it was 20 Yeah.
Those were the variables the parameters the arguments that we passed to my class when we instantiate
it and then we just ran Hello world.
We could have also decorated it this way.
But take the long way around.
Let's say that the objects to my class 10 comma 20.
And now we have this function.
Let's go ahead and recreate it.
So it's undecorated.
So here's our original my funk function.
And now we can decorate it this way.
Well what do we have.
We have.
Object object is our decorator.
It is the decorator because it can be called with the function that we want to decorate.
OK.
And now we can run my funk of course my funk needs a parameter and there we go.
Decorator function called a standees to any Halliwell's same as before.
So this shows you how you can use the fact that Python class instances are actually can be made callable
by implementing those done the call method.
And so by doing that this way you're essentially creating a decorator factory.
It's almost the same as what we did here.
Except here we use the bunch of closures here.
We use the class write the class initializer is what took in those parameters A and B and still them
as class instances as instance variables I should say and then the done the call method is of course
able to reference the instance variables and it's able to do whatever else it needs to do with the function
and basically decorate it.
So in this way we're able to decorate functions using a class not just using another function.
And that's something that you'll see in code often times.
And so it's important to understand that what's going on is the same as the factory really method that
we have over here.
Except that we're using a class and using the fact that classes are class instances can be made callable
by implementing the Dunder call method.
All right.
So thanks for watching.
I'll see you in the next video.